### Compiler

It is a translator which takes input i.e., High-Level Language, and produces an output of 
low-level language i.e. machine or assembly language. 

A compiler is more intelligent than an assembler it checks all kinds of limits, ranges, errors, etc.
But its program run time is more and occupies a larger part of memory. 
It has slow speed because a compiler goes through the entire program and then translates the entire program into machine codes.

Compiler scans the whole program in one go.
As it scans the code in one go, the errors (if any) are shown at the end together.	
Main advantage of compilers is it’s execution time.	
It converts the source code into object code.	
It does not require source code for later execution.

### Interpretor
An interpreter is a program that translates a programming language into a comprehensible language. –  

It translates only one statement of the program at a time.
Interpreters, more often than not are smaller than compilers. 

Translates program one statement at a time.
Considering it scans code one line at a time, errors are shown line by line.
Due to interpreters being slow in executing the object code, it is preferred less.
It does not convert source code into object code instead it scans it line by line
It requires source code for later execution.


### Assembler 
is used to translate the program written in Assembly language into machine code. 
The source program is an input of an assembler that contains assembly language instructions. 
The output generated by the assembler is the object code or machine code understandable by the computer. 
Assembler is basically the 1st interface that is able to communicate humans with the machine. 
We need an Assembler to fill the gap between human and machine so that they can communicate with each other. 
code written in assembly language is some sort of mnemonics(instructions) like ADD, MUL, MUX, SUB, DIV, MOV and so on. 
and the assembler is basically able to convert these mnemonics in Binary code. 
Here, these mnemonics also depend upon the architecture of the machine. 


The Compiler of java called as javac converts source code into an Intermediate file known as Bytecode file. 
The Bytecode file is unique for all types of OS means bytecode is platform-independent. 
The Interpreter of java (java) converts Bytecode into the specific OS-compatible machine code. This code will vary according to OS.
Java can run on mixed mode as well.

https://www.guru99.com/difference-compiler-vs-interpreter.html#:~:text=Compiler%20transforms%20code%20written%20in,while%20interpreted%20code%20runs%20slower.